
== NAME ==

Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics - contains assay groups needed for Atlas analytics


== SYNOPSIS ==


{{{
        use Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics;

        # ...
        
        my $atlasAnalytics = Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics->new(
                platform => $platform,  # "rnaseq" or ArrayExpress array design accession
                assays => $arrayRefOfAssayObjects,
        );
}}}

== DESCRIPTION ==

An Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics object stores an array of Atlas::AtlasConfig::AssayGroup objects that are used in one Atlas analytics element of an Atlas experiment.


== ATTRIBUTES ==

 atlas_assay_groups:: Reference to array containing Atlas::AtlasConfig::AssayGroup objects.
 platform:: String representing the platform for this analytics element. Either "rnaseq" or an ArrayExpress array design accession/
 assays:: Reference to an array of Assay objects.
 minimum_biological_replicates:: Integer specifying the minimum number of biological replicates allowed in an AssayGroup.


== METHODS ==

Each attribute has accessor (get_*) and mutator (set_*) methods.

 new:: Instantiates a new Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics object.
 _build_minimum_biological_replicates:: Returns the minimum number of biological replicates required in a Baseline Atlas experiment (currently 1). This is overridden by the same builder method in Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics::Differential.
 _build_atlas_assay_groups:: Returns an array of Atlas::AtlasConfig::AssayGroup objects.
 _map_factors_to_assays:: Creates a hash with factor values as keys and arrayrefs of assays as values.
 _factor_values_to_string:: Returns a string of factor values joined with "; ".


== AUTHOR ==

Expression Atlas team <arrayexpress-atlas@ebi.ac.uk>

