
== NAME ==

Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig - contains Atlas analytics objects for experiment XML config.


== SYNOPSIS ==


{{{
        use Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig;

                # ...

                my $experimentConfig = Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig->new(
                        atlas_analytics => $arrayRefOfAtlasAnalyticsObjects,
                        atlas_experiment_type => $atlasXmlExperimentType,
                        experiment_accession => $experimentAccession,
                );
}}}

== DESCRIPTION ==

An Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig object stores an array of Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics objects to be written to the final experiment XML config. For RNA-seq experiments, there should be only one Analytics object. For microarray, there should be one Analytics object per array design.


== ATTRIBUTES ==

 atlas_analytics:: An array containing one or more Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics objects to print to the XML config file.
 atlas_experiment_type:: A string containing the Atlas experiment type. One of: 'microarray_1colour_mrna_differential', 'microarray_2colour_mrna_differential', 'microarray_1colour_microrna_differential', 'rnaseq_mrna_differential', 'rnaseq_mrna_baseline'.
 experiment_accession:: ArrayExpress accession of experiment, e.g. E-MTAB-1066.


== METHODS ==

Each attribute has accessor (get_*), mutator (set_*), and predicate (has_*) methods.

 new:: Instantiates a new Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig object.
 write_xml:: Writes the Atlas::AtlasConfig::ExperimentConfig and all it contains in XML format.


== AUTHOR ==

Expression Atlas team <arrayexpress-atlas@ebi.ac.uk>

