
== NAME ==

Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate - a single Assay object, or set of Assay objects that are technical replicates of one another.


== SYNOPSIS ==


{{{
        use Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate;

        # ...
        my $biologicalReplicate = Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate->new(
                assays => $arrayRefOfAssayObjects,
                technical_replicate_group => $technicalReplicateID,
        );
}}}

== DESCRIPTION ==

An Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate object contains an array of Assay objects that have been determined to belong to the same group of technical replicates. Most of the time, the Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate object will only contain a single Assay object, but using this container simplifies the case when we have a set of technical replicates that together for a single biological replicate. Each Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate object stores a technical replicate group ID (string, e.g. "t1"), which is unique to that technical replicate group within an Atlas::AtlasConfig::Analytics object.


== ATTRIBUTES ==

 assays:: A reference to an array of Assay objects, that have been determined to be technical replicates of each other based on their shared technical replicate group ID.
 technical_replicate_group:: String value of the ID of the technical replicate group the assay belongs to. Optional.
 factors:: Hashref mapping factors to their values.


== METHODS ==

Each attribute has accessor (get_*) and mutator (set_*) methods.

 new:: Instantiates a new Atlas::AtlasConfig::BiologicalReplicate oject.
 _build_factors:: Returns a hash of factors and their values taken from first Assay object passed.


== AUTHOR ==

Expression Atlas team <arrayexpress-atlas@ebi.ac.uk>

